This is the other big talking point of
the moment, which is the SAS apocalypse
idea. And in the age of vibe coding,
everyone is just going to go out and
design their own portfolio risk
management system.
>> Let me provide a little context broadly
about what we think is going to happen.
So, one of our portfolio managers, one
of our technology portfolio managers, is
a gentleman Tony Kim.
And a year ago, 2 years ago, I said,
"Tony, if today there are 100 lines of
code in the world,
in 2030, how many are there?"
And he said, "A million."
And
I was like, "You're out of your mind."
And he said, "No, no, no. Like, I was
quite thoughtful about that. I didn't
make up a number. Well, we've all seen
how much Joe is coding.
>> [laughter]
>> Well, but this is an important
dimension, cuz 10 * 10 * 10 * 10 * So,
if you believe, which you know, it's
going to be a multiple. You could argue,
is it three, is it seven, is it 10, is
it 14?
But it's going to go up every year by a
multiple given these tools.
So, the amount of code in the world is
going to go up dramatically.
>> [music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Lots podcast.
>> [music]
>> I'm Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe
Weisenthal. Joe, when I think about the
world of finance
>> Yeah. and [music] what I would describe
as mega trends of recent years and
decades, there are definitely two that
spring to mind, maybe a third trend,
although I don't know if it's mega.
Probably is. The first is definitely the
rise of the buy-side. So, this idea
that, you know, it very much used to be
all about the banks, and those were the
ones that we kind of obsessed over. And
then you have this extraordinary growth
in the asset management industry. The
second mega trend has to be technology,
right? Think about the rise of
electronic trading, electronic risk
management, model-driven risk
management.
>> those.
>> And then the third semi-mega trend, I
don't know. Rise of private markets,
right?
>> Yeah. Oh, I have another one
that I think is legit. Um the sort of
power law domination of a few mega
companies, and sort of whether it's
consolidated
>> bigger.
>> the winner-take-all-ness or the
winner-take-most-ness of the industry. I
would add that as a mega trend.
>> Okay, that's great.
>> that connects to this episode.
>> Absolutely. So, we have four big
mega trends, and we have the perfect
guest
>> to talk about all of those four things.
Um And it comes at a time when obviously
we're in this new sort of technological
wave with AI. It very much feels like
everyone in professional finance wants
to figure out a way of being involved in
AI in one way or another. It's funny, I
was meeting up with someone who works at
a very large bank the other day, and
they were talking about how work that
they've done 20 years ago, their
managers are now adamant it has to be
put into a big Excel database because
they're about to shove all of that into
an AI model. So, you can
>> yeah, yeah. You can see there's this
like urgency.
>> Yeah. And there's a perennial question
over how much of it is real
>> random data that exists somewhere, they
need to have it as part of a data lake
or whatever, so that the AI model knows
about it. Oh, that makes sense.
>> Exactly. And I I think the question for
this is how much of it is managers who
are latching on to the AI, you know,
trend versus how much of this is
actually going to become productive,
useful technology for finance. So, we
can definitely talk a little bit about
that, but we do have the perfect guest.
>> it. All right. So, we're going to be
speaking with Rob Goldstein. He is, of
course, the COO of BlackRock, someone
who has literally lived through
basically all of these mega trends that
we just described.
>> Yes. And the question is, how many hours
do we have?
>> [laughter]
>> You know, needless to say, those mega
trends we could talk about for quite
some time.
>> Yeah. We could do a series. We we could
do a series.
>> series.
>> And one thing I would, uh, just, you
know, politely identify, I think as
people talk about the big getting
bigger,
>> Yeah. I think there's an underlying
catalyst towards those who could provide
a better value proposition are getting
bigger.
>> Okay.
>> And I think that's the key theme that's
happening particularly with regard to
the buy-side. Well, all right. Let me I
I know you were saying, what was it, a
polite You didn't push back, but a
polite nuance or something like that.
But one could say that the ability to
provide a better value proposition is
itself a function of size in many
instances because the larger have the
full suite, the whole menu, right?
>> A of services. So, even there there's
like a nuance upon a nuance.
>> 100% And and what's interesting is, I
think if you ordered the mega themes,
Yeah. you could make a very strong
argument that it all comes down to
technology. Hm. Okay. And technology is
enabling things and value propositions
to be achieved that traditionally just
couldn't be done. Great. Let's just talk
about that. Is it true that like some of
BlackRock's foundational By the way, the
chances that I say Blackstone in this
conversation at least one
>> good.
>> I apologize in advance.
>> I had a pre-call, and I said that and
and I could like, you know, I've been in
this business a long time. We had a
pre-call with Rob like several weeks
ago. I said Blackstone. And then like I
could tell there was like a silence. I
was like, I said the wrong thing.
>> [laughter]
>> I don't know.
He's heard it all before. I hope so. Um
so, is it true that like the
foundational culture of BlackRock is
very much tied to technology? Because
the story that I always used to hear was
about a Sun workstation and Ben Golub.
Yeah. And Ben is still, uh, a close
friend and mentor, Ben being one of the
the founding partners of BlackRock. I
think if you zoom out a little bit,
because I think the history of BlackRock
is very reflective of what the past 30,
35 years have been in terms of the
companies that have been most
successful.
And if you look at the founders of
BlackRock, they were a group of people
who were pioneers with regard to
structured products and the evolution of
the mortgage market. And what they
realized is that banks at the time were
the the sell-side, as as you guys sort
of laid the the groundwork. Banks at the
time were using supercomputers,
and they were very expensive computers
to structure things. And then the way
they were selling those products was
literally by faxing yield tables all
over the world. And I know and I when I
say this to, you know,
20-something-year-old,
30-something-year-olds,
including my own children who are,
um, you know, in their early 20s,
a lot of the people back then didn't
even have computers. Yeah.
>> Like computers were like there was one
for a group of people as opposed to
everyone had one on their desk. So, the
thesis behind forming BlackRock was that
we could actually build models
that would help provide risk
transparency
for those type of instruments and help
the end asset owner.
We could build those models, and through
the Sun workstation as the innovation,
if you were reasonably clever, you
didn't need to be a genius, but if you
were reasonably clever, you could buy 10
Sun workstations for $10,000 each and
link them together Hm.
>> and effectively do what previously only
supercomputers that cost millions of
dollars could do.
So, the the founding thesis of BlackRock
was really about, how do we bring those
technology capabilities,
which were not really available on the
buy-side, how do we use them as the core
of building an asset manager? That was
the founding thesis. And I think one of
the real success factors, and I think
that, um, when you look today, what I'm
about to say seems like very odd, uh,
but I guess this is Odd Lots, so
so it's perfect. But when I started at
BlackRock in 1994,
when we had roughly 80 people, $19
billion in assets under management, I
was in the data and analytics team. I
was effectively a data analyst. And like
today, data, technology, analytics are
where the cool kids are.
Back then, it was not where the cool
kids are, trust me.
And the whole concept of recognizing
very early on that the asset management
business at its core is an information
processing business, today is so
obvious, but if you rewind back 10, 20,
30 years ago, that was a very unique,
novel concept.
>> We really do need like 5 hours.
>> And this is kind of a tangent. You
mentioned the idea of like you could
string 10 Sun Sun workstations together
to make a supercomputer. We are actually
coming back to the future or the future
of the back a little bit. These
currently in computing, I have a good
friend who has promised to help me later
this year. I'm going to buy like five
Mac minis cuz he says you can host your
own LLM now from home if you just have
like four or five Mac minis strung
together. Then you don't have to depend
on any other company's data center for
unlimited token usage. So, this is going
to kind of come back.
>> Well, it's it's interesting though. I
think that's a real question in terms of
where we are right now because
I don't know the answer to this, but I
could make two good arguments. One is
along the lines of what you're saying.
>> Yeah. The other is
we are living in an age right now, if
you really just think about what's
happening with AI,
you could convert energy to
intelligence.
And the more money you spend on energy,
the more intelligence you have.
You could argue different than many
technology trends that we've had over
the past couple of decades.
This is a technology trend that requires
capital. Mhm. Mhm. And it requires
spending a lot of money. Yeah. And I
think there's a real question about
whether or not this is a very expensive
technology
or if this will ultimately wind up being
five guys at home in a garage with a
handful of Mac Minis can can accomplish
miracles. I I don't know if that's
certain yet which one is is going to
prove true.
I want to like get in more on your
history and Aladdin and the technology
that you've been involved in building
over these years, but maybe big picture
question is like one of the things about
AI that really strikes me as potentially
interesting with how it's going to
affect finance is
AI is non-deterministic. You put in a
query
and you don't really know you never know
if you're going to get the same output
twice or whatever. And I'm curious like
for one you don't know how it arrived
often and models can't explain
themselves and this is an issue for
finance which is they're often not
explicable why the output came out. But
then there's this other element of
you're not going to get the same thing
twice. And I'm curious like when you
think about how that fits into the
history of technology whether that is a
source of anxiety for finance. You need
to be able to show your work often in
many cases or you need to be able to
like traditional software you write a
line of code and as long as there's no
bug it'll produce the same result a
thousand times in a row. Is this new? Is
this something that is going to be a
difficult tension to work around? No
question.
Absolutely no question. And just to give
an analogy
>> Okay. um
I am sure there have been many many many
people who sat in this seat through the
years
and said by X X being years ago there
will be self-driving cars.
You won't need driver's licenses and so
on and so forth.
>> Yeah. I think the tolerance people have
for computers to make mistakes is very
different than the tolerance people have
for humans to make mistakes. So that's
just a a societal starting point. One of
the most for all intents and purposes
I think you could make a a cohesive
argument. I I love Marvel movies as a
family that's that's one of our things.
This is like alien technology has been
found on the planet Earth and now we're
figuring out how to use it.
And one of the remarkable things about
the technology even if and I know from
from listening to you you've played with
a lot of the coding tools.
If you look at the coding tools
they write code
and then there are bugs in the code and
then they find the bugs and they fix the
bugs. So like the way we've been trying
to think about a computer is how could
that happen? Wouldn't it be smart enough
to write the code without the bugs?
Right. Like why do I have to prompt it
to fix itself?
>> But it's much cuz it's much more like a
person.
>> Mhm. It's much more about thinking
than this binary zero and one structure
Yeah. that we've become used to for
computers.
And I think one of the remarkable
everyone if if you spend time with any
of the the big technology firms or the
the big AI companies the frontier model
providers they use this term regulated
industries.
And needless to say regulated industries
like financial services
we need to be certain
that we have the appropriate processes
and controls in place.
So through one lens that's a big
friction.
Through another lens
I think it's actually a competitive
advantage to the industry because if you
think about it we have so many controls.
We have so many controls as a natural
part of the process. So for example one
of the first things we did within
BlackRock
when the technology became available
we we created this this rule that we
called this principle that we call the
first draft principle.
Why can't we have a first draft of
everything we produce
be created through AI? Mhm. Whether it
be a client presentation an internal
document uh a prospectus
and the reason why you're very
deliberate about saying first draft is
cuz we have 16 people who check the
first draft.
And that ability as a starting point is
a very sort of strong catalyst towards
leveraging and getting to know the
technology.
But I would actually argue that today
the technology has provided a lot of
people like individual productivity.
But at an enterprise level if you look
at the case studies
w
it's not clear to me we've entered the
first inning
of the actual enterprise implementation.
I still think the national anthem is is
sort of being played. Mhm. And I think
that the actual overhang
between what the models can do
and the fact that this is technology
that needs to be implemented it requires
organizational design business process
re-engineering like implementing
technology is hard and takes time.
And we haven't even started that
enterprise implementation yet. Mhm. Can
you talk a little bit more about this in
the context of Aladdin because I think
part of the concern here that Joe was
getting at is that you have these models
that are getting more complex and more
you know difficult to predict. We don't
know what they're going to spit out.
They're non-deterministic as Joe said.
And meanwhile you have this risk
management technology that has already
for years been described as a black box
and I'm sure you have opinions on that
particular
>> Yes. label. But if it gets more
sophisticated are people going to fully
understand what it's actually doing?
Well let let me start out by saying we
haven't described it as a black
>> No not you. So we'll we'll come back
we'll come back to that in a minute.
[laughter]
But importantly AI as a technology is
not new.
I wish I knew the exact year but like
the AI lab at MIT was created in the
1950s.
We started our AI lab in 2018.
So these methods have been used for a
long time.
At a very sort of simple level that I'm
sure would offend a lot of people you
could think about old AI was about
numbers new AI is about language. And
the language element of it creates all
sorts of you know humans communicate
much more through language than numbers.
So it it creates a whole host of of
other unintended consequences.
But when you look at a platform like
Aladdin as an enterprise platform and by
the way I would make a cohesive argument
everything I'm saying you could make the
same case with regard to the Bloomberg
terminal. I knew I knew this was going
to come up in this conversation. It's a
fair point. It's a fair point. So if you
think about um these technologies
first
the reward for good work is more work.
So the to-do list for these technologies
is infinite.
Like genuinely infinite.
Every year
BlackRock winds up having more
engineers.
We have roughly 5,000 engineers data
analysts model modelers.
Uh we have
every year we wind up having more
engineers and every year we wind up
having a bigger to-do list of
enhancements we could put within
Aladdin.
So the first element of the AI
capability
and I would argue the most mature use
case that exists at an enterprise level
is coding.
So the ability
to go through that to-do list the
velocity of that is off the charts.
The second component
and this is one of the challenges of
these enterprise expert systems
is that the number of times I've been in
a a meeting with a client where they say
you know why doesn't Aladdin do this?
And I'm like mhm I think Aladdin does
that. Mhm.
>> let me I I don't want to like blurt it
out. Let me sort of follow up and then
I'll you know leave the meeting I'll
call the people smarter than me
and they'll be like
Aladdin's done that for seven years.
And you're like okay the the ability for
people to keep current in technology is
very hard.
And you know as much as we like the
technology most people their goal with
technology is to just interface with it
to do their jobs and then like go home.
So the ability to take an expert system
that today requires a lot of knowledge
and and keeping up with it
and instead just type in what you want
it to do
and an agent will be the ultimate
real-time user of Aladdin that will then
do those activities
all the same controls will exist the
four eyes principle all of those
controls will exist but that ability to
have users to have clients
access all the untapped capabilities
that today they
don't know about I think the the value
enterprise technology is going to
provide going forward Aladdin and and
other enterprise technology is actually
going to be much greater than at any
point previously. It's actually it's
it's extremely exciting to me cuz
there's nothing more frustrating
than being in a meeting where someone is
complaining you don't do something when
you actually do it.
This must be a thing for a bunch of
enterprise software, right? Cuz no one
we've talked to other software people on
no one uses all the specs, no one uses
all the features, no one knows all the
features, etc. But you said something
that is something that's kind of one of
my hobby horses.
If it's the agent that's using Aladdin
rather than the sort of any human, so
does that change how you think about UX?
It It's a great question. Um
we debate this a lot.
And uh uh I'll tell you about something
I saw yesterday, but
uh I think it has to.
But at the same time, I think there will
be people who will want to do it
themselves.
>> Okay.
I think there will be people who want to
do it themselves. You know, it's
interesting even in this age of
everything being on the phone, Yeah. you
still need a website that people could
access other So So I think there there
still will be
people who want to do it themselves. I
saw a demo yesterday of a tool
that from one of these uh
AI companies
that
will uh
I hope I could articulate it well
enough, but it will look at a website
and it showed it looked at one of our
websites and redesigned it to be more uh
like optimal user friendliness. So it
was the opposite of It was using AI to
almost do the opposite of what you said.
Make it Make it easier for the humans.
And it was one of these things where,
you know, in the demo, cuz you know,
websites are public.
So they were able to do things with our
own stuff
that we didn't know about.
And as they're showing what they would
do, and when I say they, what a computer
would do after 10 minutes of processing
with their own website, you're like,
"Hmm."
>> [laughter]
>> You know, the the
it in X months or maybe a year or two,
tools like this will re-engineer every
website on the planet Earth and they
will all be
more user-friendly. For us, hopefully,
and not the agents. Um or both.
Um can you talk a little bit more about
the moat around Aladdin? Because this is
the other big talking point of the
moment, which is the SaaS-pocalypse
idea. And in the age of vibe coding,
everyone is just going to go out and
design their own portfolio risk
management system. Let me provide a
little context broadly about what we
think is going to happen or what a group
of us think are going to happen. And
then let me go into Aladdin, cuz I think
that they're they're somewhat related.
So one of our portfolio managers, one of
our technology portfolio managers, is a
gentleman Tony Kim.
And
a year ago, two years ago, I said,
"Tony, if today there are 100 lines of
code in the world,
in 2030, how many are there?"
And he said, "A million."
And
I was like, "You're out of your mind."
And he said, "No, no, no. Like I was
quite thoughtful about that. I didn't
make up a number."
Yeah, we've all seen how much Joe is
coding.
>> [laughter]
>> Well, but this is an important
dimension, cuz 10 * 10
* 10 * 10 * So if you believe, which,
you know, it's going to be a multiple.
You could argue is it three, is it
seven, is it 10, is it 14?
But it's going to go up every year by a
multiple given these tools.
So the amount of code in the world is
going to go up dramatically.
And I think that when you look at a
platform like Aladdin, and in many
regards, I think it would be like things
with Bloomberg.
They're at
centers of an ecosystem. The ecosystem
is highly regulated. The ecosystem has
zero tolerance for fault or error.
The processes you do not only leverage
tremendous amounts of proprietary data,
so it's not within these models or
accessible by the models,
but importantly, clients are putting
their most sensitive data
into these platforms.
And then what you're doing in terms of
workflow is highly highly highly
idiosyncratic
and requires this combination of people,
process, and technology.
So
it's a hard time in this world, in my
opinion, to predict what 2050 looks
like.
But when you look forward 10 years in
our industry,
these platforms, if anything, are going
to do more, not less.
And I think what really is going to be
unlocked is that users like Joe
are going to access these platforms
through their own coding tools, but
these coding tools are going to be
central to those platforms. I didn't
forget your black box comment.
Going back to
>> forget. Going Going back No, I think
it's I'm coding other people. No, I I
think it's it's important and I think
that certain technologies 10 or 20 years
ago were designed to be closed systems.
>> [laughter]
>> Okay. Uh you know where I'm going.
Certain technologies were designed to be
closed systems. Aladdin was one of those
technologies.
And roughly 10 years ago, we started
this open Aladdin campaign well before
anything to do with sort of this this
round of AI we're in,
which was all about the future of
technology is going to be some people
are going to want to interact
with it through a keyboard and a mouse.
And many people are going to want to
interact with it through code. Okay.
>> Because even if you're graduating with
an English major,
if you're graduating at most schools at
this point, you've taken a coding class.
So just the the amount of technical
expertise that you come in is is a whole
different level. So this is like opening
up more like API endpoints and things
like that as opposed to say like open
source. Like they're opening that, yeah.
O- Open within a closed ecosystem. And
And that is a critical element. Because
open within a closed ecosystem, one of
the things, and it's like obvious after
the fact, but one of the things that we
realized like, "Oh my god, this is
amazing and it's so valuable." is that
when you call our APIs, for example, in
Aladdin,
your permissions
go through. So if you think about the
complexity of managing permissions in a
asset manager with thousands of people,
you know, you could see some portfolios,
you could see some portfolios. They're
different portfolios.
You could trade, you're not allowed to
trade, you can only confirm trades. The
complexity of those permissions, so the
fact that when you call an API,
it knows what you can and can access.
>> Yeah. That whole control plane and layer
is an incredible value proposition.
And the more you have people coding and
the more you have people interacting
with systems in more technical ways, the
more valuable those control planes
actually wind up being.
What happens on the flip side? Okay,
you've described some core pieces of
infrastructure that are regulated,
there's proprietary data, etc. Clients
are putting their most sensitive info in
the world, and your view is that the
value of those platforms will grow.
Are there Is there software that's not
that? Is that other zeros? Absolutely.
No, there's absolutely Absolutely there
there's
There's There's what? Well, for for
first of all, sort of
uh
these things have long tails. Okay,
yeah. So So like
actually going through the process of
retiring a system Yeah.
is a lot of work, no matter what the
system is. So there are long tails.
But there are certain technologies
that are really a bit
We all use them. There are certain
technologies that are about collating
public information and making it easy
for you to access.
>> Mhm.
And I think it's fair to say that the
AI tools that exist
are the ultimate oracles in being able
to do that, in being able to scour all
public sources and give you back
information in the way that you're most
comfortable with. So particularly
that segment of SaaS, which is that like
convenience layer, Mhm.
where they don't really have proprietary
data,
they're not really in the workflow,
they're a convenience technology, I
think those convenience technologies
They're in trouble. Th- Th- They're
certainly going to be looking for ways
of reimagining their value proposition.
One of the reasons we wanted to have you
on the podcast is because you are both,
you know, a provider of AI of Viz
Aladdin and also a user of AI at your
own company. And we've all seen various
executives and managers talk about AI as
a productivity-enhancing tool. And they
tend to talk about it in very general
terms. So I would be curious to hear
from your perspective exactly what a
productivity enhancement at BlackRock
actually looks like.
>> I will give you a productivity
enhancement from
uh Friday Right.
>> of last week because and by the way,
what I'm describing I think is the
future
everywhere.
Um I hope BlackRock gets to that future
faster than others, but I believe it's
the future. So, we have been doing a lot
of work enhancing a lot in the many
ways.
And uh one of the big themes that we
have, as as you know,
is how do we provide more transparency
in the private markets
>> Mhm. to be as close as possible to the
public markets in pursuit of this whole
portfolio.
So, we have a a large program of work
that's been going on for quite some
time.
So,
I I try to spend hours every Friday
getting demos of things we're working
on.
So, my Friday afternoon demo,
uh along the the theme that I just
described,
was a demo of a tool that was awesome.
But, let me go through how it was
created.
And this was the first time end-to-end
that at least I've been shown this.
So,
a group of people
that included uh portfolio managers,
uh risk
professionals, engineers, product
managers, a group of people sat in a
room for multiple hours
talking about how this capability should
work.
That discussion was recorded.
That discussion, through the recording
of it,
created a functional document.
That functional document was lightly
tweaked. That functional document was
then put in some of the AI coding tools
that we use.
That document, uh through the AI coding
tools, led to a prototype.
There was a debugging process that you
you live through the that we just
described.
>> Mhm.
And on Friday,
you know, I've seen a lot of prototypes
before in my sort of 32 years.
>> Can imagine.
>> So, I I know the questions to ask where
you see the prototype is like a thin
shell. Yeah. But, if you press enough,
the the shell cracks. Like, this wasn't
like
a prototype. This was like the real
deal. Huh.
And when you look at that cycle,
we effectively collapsed what would have
taken
the unit of measurement would have been
months.
Now, the unit of measurement was days.
Now, it will still go through our
software development life cycle. It will
be tested. It will all of those things.
But, when you look at that as a
productivity tool,
the up This goes back to the 10x-ing
Yeah.
>> the amount of of lines of code in the
world every year.
There's just going to be an explosion in
the ability to engineer things. Now, I'm
wondering if the coding tool, when it
sees a transcript of a meeting like
that, do you think it weights the
participants by like title and level of
importance? No, this is a real question.
>> does. It would be weird if it didn't,
right? It It's interesting. My intuition
is it doesn't.
My intuition is this would be a a
a great exercise in those who talk most
are probably most productive.
>> I heard about a company that's doing
third-party consulting for helping
companies implement software. And one of
the things that they're doing is they
get on a Zoom with the client. And they
have a camera trained on the whiteboard
that they're working on. And that video
file also is part of So, in addition to
the audio, because, you know,
whiteboards are the lingua franca of
software development. So, that's also
gets uploaded to it. And so that it like
sees that whole workflow and stuff. It's
pretty It's pretty wild stuff. I'm
curious, tokens, there's been a lot of
headlines lately about token sticker
shock of like, "Whoa, we're spending a
lot on inference." I'm curious if you
could tell us anything about token
consumption this year versus last year
at BlackRock. [laughter] But, also like
one of the things that we're also
seeing, and it's very it's related to
this, is like the compute constraints
that have long been talked about as
theoretical are starting to actually
bite. People who are sort of like
Anthropic users are like whatever. Are
you running into like could you talk a
little bit about token consumption? And
is the compute constraint real from your
perspective? Do you If you could snap
your fingers and get 100,000 more
plugged-in GPUs, would that be a big a
big help right now? Well, I think that
you have to
sort of go, um back in time a little
bit. So, one of the one of the key key
key lessons learned, um
that I've experienced, and I remember uh
one of the near near founding partners,
a gentleman Charlie Hallac, who
unfortunately passed away, what he
instilled in me, among many other
things, was
if you have the right modelers and
engineers,
and you leave them unconstrained, they
will bankrupt the company
>> [laughter]
>> in terms of their insatiable appetite
for compute.
In the old days, you had a physical data
center that was the constraint.
You would have to order hardware. At
some point, people would say, "We're
outgrowing our data center." You'd say,
"Let's wait a year and see what
happens." So, in today's world, the
elasticity is obviously very different.
But, as a starting point, there are a
group of people within BlackRock, and I
think this is true in any sort of great
financial services company, that if you
leave them unconstrained from a compute
power perspective, 20 years ago, they
would have bankrupted the company. 10
years ago, and today they they will.
So, part of it is how do you think about
where to invest?
>> Yeah. I don't know offhand the number of
tokens we're consuming today relative to
a year, but it's multiples. It's
multiples higher. And I think that we're
we're still at a point, again, as a
as a company, but also at a broad
industry level, where I don't really
think the game has started yet. So, I
don't think anyone really knows what the
token consumption is going to be.
And equally as important, I don't think
anyone has really started optimizing
their token consumption.
>> You know what someone needs to do? Is
build an Aladdin for token efficiency.
It is a certainty that not only will
that exist, but uh one of the the
gentlemen who the person who actually
leads our AI lab, a gentleman Stephen
Boyd,
you know, I I had called him in the
early days of this happening. And I'm
like, "What are we missing? Like,
Stephen, help me understand what are we
missing?" And he he said two things. And
he is a a professor of of engineering at
Stanford. He said, "You're missing two
things. One is that
uh
articulate language is very, very
powerful." And I'm like, "Okay, like,
what does that mean?" And he's like,
"Think about it. I'm a professor. If I'm
reading a paper,
and it's like not in great It's not
written that well,
you check everything. And if you're
reading a paper that's written really
well, you just assume it's right." Mhm.
So, that was the first point. The second
point he had, which relates to this
topic, he said, "Just remember, there's
a bunch of graduate students here and
everywhere else
that right now are working on like the
most boring aspects of this, too,
including how to have these models be
more efficient." Mhm. So, right now,
it's all about the quest for
intelligence. I think we're going to see
it pivot slightly to the quest for
enterprise use cases.
And then I think it's going to pivot
very quickly to the quest for efficiency
of how you're accessing things. We're
not
We're not there yet.
I want to go back to something you said
about private markets quickly, which is
this whole whole portfolio management
idea.
This idea that, via a system like
Aladdin, you can manage your private
assets the same way you would manage
your public assets. And you get more
transparency around pricing and things
like that. So, part of the sales pitch
with private markets has been this idea
of an illiquidity premium.
And the idea that you earn a little bit
more because these things are not
treated like public market assets. Once
you start to be able to manage them much
more similarly to a a more liquid asset,
does some of that sales pitch start to
go away? I think of it as an effort
premium. There's a liquidity element to
it, and then there's like an effort
premium. If you have to do more work,
presumably, you need to be compensated
for that. As crazy as it sounds to to
many people,
like when I started,
the way you would get information about
public bonds, cuz even Bloomberg back
then was a bit nascent, Yeah. you would
read a prospectus.
And you would type into a computer,
"This is the maturity. This is the
sinking schedule. This is the call
schedule." Now, today you say that to
people who entered the industry in the
past 20 years, and they think you're
nuts.
So, I think there's no fighting
technology. That's my own opinion.
So, I think
it is certain that if you say in 10
years, are the private markets more or
less transparent? They're certainly more
transparent.
And I think if you think about your
life, almost everything in your life is
becoming more transparent. I I try not
to affix technology on my body, but it's
very rare that three people would be
together where someone doesn't have some
device that's monitoring like their
blood pressure in real time. So like
everything is pointing towards more
transparency. I have a hard time
believing
that as private markets exposures in
portfolios grow,
the end asset owner is going to wind up
with less transparency. So I think this
is just the direction of travel.
I do think over time certain components
of it will start to become more
standardized, very similar to things
that happened in the public bond markets
and the public equity markets.
>> Right. And then there will be new
innovations in other ways.
But I believe that
things will become
much more transparent.
It's a certainty.
You know, um
in the future, and this is I guess more
from just an investment standpoint, but
like
what is the investors source of edge in
the future? You know, one point maybe
there was a source of edge because you
were early to jump on and see the
potential of stringing together Sun
Microsystems and you could replicate
whatever or these workstations. Just
looking forward for the uh for the
portfolio manager etc. What what
constitutes edge?
>> It's a great question and and I think
across industries, if you think of them
as a treadmill, everyone's going to have
to run faster. Okay. Like there there
there's no question that that's that's
the case. I think the edge you could
break up into three categories. First, I
think the edge is going to be helping
clients with their whole portfolio as
opposed to just pieces. And I think if
you look at the asset management
industry, a very significant
I would say um evolution aspect of the
asset management industry is that the
industry organized itself inconsistent
with how clients build portfolios.
You had fixed income shops, you had
equity shops, you had index managers,
you had active managers, you had
systematic managers, you had public
markets, you had private markets. And
then you forced the client to put all
the stuff together.
So the industry is going to pivot more
towards helping with the whole thing,
Okay. which is a different type of edge.
Yep.
I think that the ability to use these
tools
is going to be an edge in and of itself.
So notwithstanding coding is going to be
easier and there will be multiples more.
Like the ability to build technology is
going to become more not less important
even if the frictions to build
technology go down. I was at a
conference and someone asked me like who
would you like to hire coming out of
university? And I said English majors.
And that was a big mistake because then
like thousands of people emailed me that
their child their child's an English
major, will I speak to them?
>> [laughter]
>> But the reason I said English majors and
I believe this, like we're living
through a time where those who could
have imagination and articulated,
the ability to implement that
has never been as fast. Yeah. And and
literally if it used to be like years,
now it's like days.
So the ability to have those ideas, the
implementability of those ideas is going
to be different than any point. So that
creativity and imagination and then
lastly, obviously, the world is becoming
very complicated. I've heard. You
basically have these this collision
between
national security, technology and
capital.
You have this fragmentation
of geopolitics, you have
the changing demographics of the world,
you have what's happening with this
alien technology that's now been found
on the planet Earth. So if you like
think about the global connectivity
that's required to really manage
portfolios and how geopolitics is going
to implement
within portfolios going forward, I think
that requires like on the ground
networks as much as it requires
technology.
And it's interesting. I'm I'm sure you
guys have had a similar experience. I
read the paper.
Uh I read Bloomberg. Thank you. Uh I I I
watch a lot of stuff.
But when you talk to and I I was
actually supposed to be uh traveling
last week
in the Gulf region and instead I I did a
virtual tour. When you speak to
our clients there, you get a very
different picture of what's going on
than what you're reading.
And I think those networks are going to
become more important in terms of edge
as we look forward. Nothing will replace
being on the ground.
Well, actually on that note, you know,
you're in a position where you're hiring
people constantly for very specific
roles. Are the processes or the
questions that you're asking people now
different in the age of AI versus what
they were like four years ago? It's
interesting. I hope so. I I know the
questions I'm asking people are. I hope
that's at scale. Maybe I should follow
up on that.
But the questions I'm asking, I couldn't
be more excited about the opportunities
ahead for BlackRock.
But I couldn't be more
aware
of the requirement in today's world,
everything needs to be reimagined.
And what we need and what I think
leaders are going to be faced with, and
ironically I think a lot of the
reimagination is going to come bottom
up. But how do you reimagine
what you do?
How do you reimagine how you grow? How
do you reimagine how you interact with
clients
in this new world?
And I think
that again, I don't think that's
started. I think right now it's a bit of
a brain teaser, a lot of experiments,
but it it has not started.
Almost every great company, if you walk
in in the year 2030, is going to be
fundamentally different than today.
And the way I think of this, this is
night not a an overnight
reimagination,
but it's not a five-year reimagination.
It's somewhere in between those two.
You know, we said in the beginning we
could go for hours and there's a million
other things that we could ask. One last
question on my mind.
Um
I've been I've tried I've asked this
version to a few different people is
like
and it maybe kind of relates to the
other kind of tokens, tokenization. But
just this idea That's going to get
confusing. You can tell.
>> annoying already.
Cuz there's a
Well, can can I just say one thing
before you ask your question?
It's going to get confusing. It already
is, but importantly AI
and digital assets Yeah. are very
related topics, extremely related
topics.
>> Well, this kind of maybe you can maybe
you can fold that into the answer here.
But you know, like an interesting thing,
you know, there's a lot of very exciting
private companies that people are
wanting to get access to.
But in many cases they're already like
kind of trading in some way and there
might be like these SPVs that people
have already or some token somewhere
that trades on hyper liquid on the
weekend that represents somehow shares
of Anthropic or whatever.
>> You need other hobbies.
But I'm curious from your perspective
like
you know, you know, the the and another
aspect thing that relates to this is the
disclosure obligations for existing
public companies
seem like they're going to come down
over time and maybe companies will only
have to report every six months or a
year, maybe never. Like will there
always be a bright line between what's a
public and what's a private asset or is
it just going to be this spectrum of
liquidity and disclosure but no clear
definition of what it means anymore
between public and private?
>> It's a great question. I think over time
it'll be more of a spectrum. I think
that
when I look at the broad industry over
the past multiple decades, one of the
defining themes,
the lines almost across everything you
could imagine have been getting more and
more blurry. Yeah. And I would argue
that's been because of technology. So if
you think about the old style boxes that
existed, they were convenience
technologies
because you couldn't bottom up model
things, you basically said, "Okay,
mid-cap equities have this attribute."
And like that's a LEGO piece as opposed
to let me model what the individual
stocks are and then I could think of it
in the context of a whole portfolio.
So I think that what's happening
is that technology is enabling
those lines to be less discrete
and more blurry across spectrums and
across how do clients build portfolios,
how do these LEGO pieces get put
together to actually achieve their
objectives.
I think that there's a lot going on
embedded in your question including
you see and to me this is one of the
most remarkable things that that is
happening
is that
two, three, four years ago, the whole
narrative was private for longer and and
certainly I don't know how this is true
that there's fewer public companies
today than when I started.
>> don't hear that statement so often. I
I've checked it. It it's actually true
cuz I didn't believe it.
>> Yeah. But um you wonder like how is that
possible?
Now that said, the flip side of it is
you see for these companies like OpenAI
and Anthropic space, their race to go
public because at some point the public
markets
provide a lot of value propositions that
are beyond what the private markets can
provide.
So I think you see this sort of tale of
two cities that's happening.
>> Mhm. But there will be a spectrum
including a spectrum of certain
end investors and institutions
that want to have a digital wallet
and certain end investors and
institutions that want to have a
traditional custody account. And it's
not a binary thing. It's about
technology enabling that
personalization.
Mhm.
I have one more question, sort of a wild
card, but what do you and Larry think
disagree about the most? And the reason
I ask is No, I'm genuinely interested.
You You've been working alongside each
other for years and years and years now.
I have a personal interest in close
collaborative relationships.
>> on a lot. So it's a very legit question.
I would say often
we both see things similarly in terms of
the end point.
Larry is more of a tomorrow Mhm. person
and I'm more of a
you know, well
there's work to do here. This is going
to take a few years. I would say that
that's
typically it. Okay, Larry is a Joe and
I'm a Rob, I guess. [laughter]
Rob Goldstein, thank you so much for
coming on Odd Lots. That was great.
>> guys. That was great. Thank you so much.
>> Awesome, my pleasure.
>> Yeah, that was awesome. Joe, that was a
really fun conversation and a lot to
think about. I mean, I do think
when we're talking about moats around
some of these businesses, it does you
brought up the
power dynamics law very early on and it
does feel like a lot of the moat is
basically size and data and capability
that you have. And I can't imagine that
you hear this you hear you hear people
saying that they're like five coding a
bunch of different programs and they all
look kind of interesting and cool, but
like it's hard for me to imagine a big
moat around those businesses if if
you've just like plugged in a few
instructions into the cloud code.
>> And and and no one is going to be
putting anything of importance or
sensitivity into some homemade app. I
mean, that's
>> And so that's that's what was
interesting. This idea that actually the
regulatory moat around finance actually
becomes a valuable thing in the age of
AI. Totally. You know, it's interesting
too
not really AI related, but the idea of
Well, the word
the idea of being able to provide you
know, provide a solution the all of
portfolio visibility what is one reason
why the big get bigger within finance.
Well, one reason is because only a
really large entity would have the
capacity to be able to like and here's
you know, what we can offer you with
private credit and here's what we can
offer you with indexing etc. So okay,
the end investor has this big portfolio
consisting of lots of different types of
asset classes. As he mentioned
historically the industry has sort of
been verticalized by asset class. If you
want some entity that has how do all the
puzzle pieces fit together, which is the
essence of portfolio construction, then
theoretically you just want like a
really big company that understands
Everything.
>> Yeah. Also on the source of edge
question is we've talked about this
before. It always seems like one of the
fun jobs in finance would be the the
channel check person. The person who
goes to the mall Oh yeah, the field
trips.
>> field trips is like okay, how many
sweaters are on the Gap shelf, whatever.
Maybe that becomes even more valuable
because it's like things that have not
yet been put into a model.
>> Yeah. You know, when people like read
and look
I love that people listen to Odd Lots. I
love that people read the news,
particularly financial news on
Bloomberg. I've never thought by and
large that people read an article and
it's like I'm going to make an
investment decision based on that.
Hopefully it helps inform their thinking
or their process in some way, but no one
like listens to a a podcast and then
like goes out and like buys the stock by
and large. But but it's because like
once it's out there in like the digital
world, it's kind of priced in already.
So there's going to be that intense hunt
for information that is like truly like
has not been put into the model yet.
>> You are such an EMH purist. It's
amazing.
>> right? Like there the the value of
people who can find information that has
not turned into trade training data yet
for a model, that data is going to get
like super valuable and maybe like more
valuable and more reason to like just
like get out on the road and stuff like
that. No, I I largely agree with that.
The other thing I thought was really
interesting um
and it gets to your last question was
the sort of melding of public and
private markets. And it's also what I
was kind of getting at with the whole
portfolio thing. If all of these private
assets
are tokenized and treated in the same
way in a portfolio or at least visible
in a portfolio in the same way as a
public asset
>> Yeah. would be, it seems like that
distinction starts to get really really
blurry, right?
>> Not to go back to a point that I just
made, but on the on this like I think
we're actually already seeing
>> Oh, I'm sorry. I moved on too quickly.
>> No, no, like just this just clicked to
me too, but it's like okay, maybe
there'll be more value in like people
who go out on the road and get
information that's not in the model. We
saw this recently with all the people
going crazy for Citrini's analyst in The
Street of Hormones. And this idea that
like field trips out to the world to
collect information that has not been
digitized yet is going to be where all
the action is. Like it feels like that's
going to be a big thing.
>> No, it it sounds trite, but I feel like
the pendulum has swung from, you know,
for the past 20 years if you were a
smart person who could, you know, think
in terms of numbers and code, you were
probably very valued by society and now
the pendulum sort of swings to those on
the ground relationship building social
skills.
It's
it's an interesting transition.
>> It's an interesting time. All right,
shall we leave it there? Let's leave it
there. This has been another episode of
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway.
You can follow me at Tracy Alloway. And
I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow me at
The Stalwart. Follow our producers
Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen Arman Dash
Bennett at Dash Bot Keil Brooks at Keil
Brooks and Kevin Lozano at Kevin Lloyd
Lozano. And for more Odd Lots content,
you should check out our daily
newsletter. You can find that at
bloomberg.com/odd
lots. And you can chat about all these
topics 24/7 in our discord
discord.gg/odd
lots. And if you enjoyed this
conversation, then please leave a
comment or like the video or better yet,
subscribe. Thanks for watching.
>> [music]
[music]